# StackedComposite

*class*torchrl.data.StackedComposite(**args*, ***kwargs*)[[source]](../../_modules/torchrl/data/tensor_specs.html#StackedComposite)

A lazy representation of a stack of composite specs.

Stacks composite specs together along one dimension.
When random samples are drawn, a LazyStackedTensorDict is returned.

Indexing is allowed but only along the stack dimension.

This class is aimed to be used in multi-task and multi-agent settings, where
heterogeneous specs may occur (same semantic but different shape).

assert_is_in(*value: [Tensor](https://docs.pytorch.org/docs/stable/tensors.html#torch.Tensor)*) → None

Asserts whether a tensor belongs to the box, and raises an exception otherwise.

Parameters:

**value** ([*torch.Tensor*](https://docs.pytorch.org/docs/stable/tensors.html#torch.Tensor)) - value to be checked.

cardinality(**args*, ***kwargs*) → Any[[source]](../../_modules/torchrl/data/tensor_specs.html#StackedComposite.cardinality)

The cardinality of the spec.

This refers to the number of possible outcomes in a spec. It is assumed that the cardinality of a composite
spec is the cartesian product of all possible outcomes.

clear_device_()

Clears the device of the Composite.

clone() → T

Clones the Composite spec.

Locked specs will not produce locked clones.

contains(*item: [Tensor](https://docs.pytorch.org/docs/stable/tensors.html#torch.Tensor) | [TensorDictBase](https://docs.pytorch.org/tensordict/stable/reference/generated/tensordict.TensorDictBase.html#tensordict.TensorDictBase)*) → bool

If the value `val` could have been generated by the `TensorSpec`, returns `True`, otherwise `False`.

See `is_in()` for more information.

cpu()

Casts the TensorSpec to 'cpu' device.

cuda(*device=None*)

Casts the TensorSpec to 'cuda' device.

*property*device*: [device](https://docs.pytorch.org/docs/stable/tensor_attributes.html#torch.device) | str | int*

The device of the spec.

Only [`Composite`](torchrl.data.Composite.html#torchrl.data.Composite) specs can have a `None` device. All leaves must have a non-null device.

empty()[[source]](../../_modules/torchrl/data/tensor_specs.html#StackedComposite.empty)

Create a spec like self, but with no entries.

encode(*val: ndarray | list | [Tensor](https://docs.pytorch.org/docs/stable/tensors.html#torch.Tensor) | [TensorDictBase](https://docs.pytorch.org/tensordict/stable/reference/generated/tensordict.TensorDictBase.html#tensordict.TensorDictBase)*, ***, *ignore_device: bool = False*) → [Tensor](https://docs.pytorch.org/docs/stable/tensors.html#torch.Tensor) | [TensorDictBase](https://docs.pytorch.org/tensordict/stable/reference/generated/tensordict.TensorDictBase.html#tensordict.TensorDictBase)

Encodes a value given the specified spec, and return the corresponding tensor.

This method is to be used in environments that return a value (eg, a numpy array) that can be
easily mapped to the TorchRL required domain.
If the value is already a tensor, the spec will not change its value and return it as-is.

Parameters:

**val** (*np.ndarray**or*[*torch.Tensor*](https://docs.pytorch.org/docs/stable/tensors.html#torch.Tensor)) - value to be encoded as tensor.

Keyword Arguments:

**ignore_device** (*bool**,**optional*) - if `True`, the spec device will
be ignored. This is used to group tensor casting within a call
to `TensorDict(..., device="cuda")` which is faster.

Returns:

torch.Tensor matching the required tensor specs.

enumerate(*use_mask: bool = False*) → [TensorDictBase](https://docs.pytorch.org/tensordict/stable/reference/generated/tensordict.TensorDictBase.html#tensordict.TensorDictBase)[[source]](../../_modules/torchrl/data/tensor_specs.html#StackedComposite.enumerate)

Returns all the samples that can be obtained from the TensorSpec.

The samples will be stacked along the first dimension.

This method is only implemented for discrete specs.

Parameters:

**use_mask** (*bool**,**optional*) - If `True` and the spec has a mask,
samples that are masked are excluded. Default is `False`.

erase_memoize_cache() → None

Clears the memoized cache for cached encode execution.

See also

[`memoize_encode()`](torchrl.data.TensorSpec.html#torchrl.data.TensorSpec.memoize_encode).

expand(**shape*)[[source]](../../_modules/torchrl/data/tensor_specs.html#StackedComposite.expand)

Returns a new Spec with the expanded shape.

Parameters:

***shape** (*tuple**or**iterable**of**int*) - the new shape of the Spec.
Must be broadcastable with the current shape:
its length must be at least as long as the current shape length,
and its last values must be compliant too; ie they can only differ
from it if the current dimension is a singleton.

flatten(*start_dim: int*, *end_dim: int*) → T

Flattens a `TensorSpec`.

Check [`flatten()`](https://docs.pytorch.org/docs/stable/generated/torch.flatten.html#torch.flatten) for more information on this method.

get(*item*, *default=_NoDefault.ZERO*)

Gets an item from the Composite.

If the item is absent, a default value can be passed.

*classmethod*implements_for_spec(*torch_function: Callable*) → Callable

Register a torch function override for TensorSpec.

index(*index: int | [Tensor](https://docs.pytorch.org/docs/stable/tensors.html#torch.Tensor) | ndarray | slice | list*, *tensor_to_index: [Tensor](https://docs.pytorch.org/docs/stable/tensors.html#torch.Tensor) | [TensorDictBase](https://docs.pytorch.org/tensordict/stable/reference/generated/tensordict.TensorDictBase.html#tensordict.TensorDictBase)*) → [Tensor](https://docs.pytorch.org/docs/stable/tensors.html#torch.Tensor) | [TensorDictBase](https://docs.pytorch.org/tensordict/stable/reference/generated/tensordict.TensorDictBase.html#tensordict.TensorDictBase)[[source]](../../_modules/torchrl/data/tensor_specs.html#StackedComposite.index)

Indexes the input tensor.

This method is to be used with specs that encode one or more categorical variables (e.g.,
[`OneHot`](torchrl.data.OneHot.html#torchrl.data.OneHot) or [`Categorical`](torchrl.data.Categorical.html#torchrl.data.Categorical)), such that indexing of a tensor
with a sample can be done without caring about the actual representation of the index.

Parameters:

- **index** (*int**,*[*torch.Tensor*](https://docs.pytorch.org/docs/stable/tensors.html#torch.Tensor)*,**slice**or**list*) - index of the tensor
- **tensor_to_index** - tensor to be indexed

Returns:

indexed tensor

Exanples:

```
>>> from torchrl.data import OneHot
>>> import torch
>>>
>>> one_hot = OneHot(n=100)
>>> categ = one_hot.to_categorical_spec()
>>> idx_one_hot = torch.zeros((100,), dtype=torch.bool)
>>> idx_one_hot[50] = 1
>>> print(one_hot.index(idx_one_hot, torch.arange(100)))
tensor(50)
>>> idx_categ = one_hot.to_categorical(idx_one_hot)
>>> print(categ.index(idx_categ, torch.arange(100)))
tensor(50)
```

is_empty(*recurse: bool = False*)

Whether the composite spec contains specs or not.

Parameters:

**recurse** (*bool*) - whether to recursively assess if the spec is empty.
If `True`, will return `True` if there are no leaves. If `False`
(default) will return whether there is any spec defined at the root level.

is_in(*value*) → bool[[source]](../../_modules/torchrl/data/tensor_specs.html#StackedComposite.is_in)

If the value `val` could have been generated by the `TensorSpec`, returns `True`, otherwise `False`.

More precisely, the `is_in` methods checks that the value `val` is within the limits defined by the `space`
attribute (the box), and that the `dtype`, `device`, `shape` potentially other metadata match those
of the spec. If any of these checks fails, the `is_in` method will return `False`.

Parameters:

**val** ([*torch.Tensor*](https://docs.pytorch.org/docs/stable/tensors.html#torch.Tensor)) - value to be checked.

Returns:

boolean indicating if values belongs to the TensorSpec box.

items(*include_nested: bool = False*, *leaves_only: bool = False*, ***, *is_leaf: Callable[[type], bool] | None = None*, *step_mdp_static_only: bool = False*) → _CompositeSpecItemsView[[source]](../../_modules/torchrl/data/tensor_specs.html#StackedComposite.items)

Items of the Composite.

Parameters:

- **include_nested** (*bool**,**optional*) - if `False`, the returned keys will not be nested. They will
represent only the immediate children of the root, and not the whole nested sequence, i.e. a
`Composite(next=Composite(obs=None))` will lead to the keys
["next"]. Default is ``False`, i.e. nested keys will not
be returned.
- **leaves_only** (*bool**,**optional*) - if `False`, the values returned
will contain every level of nesting, i.e. a `Composite(next=Composite(obs=None))`
will lead to the keys `["next", ("next", "obs")]`.
Default is `False`.

Keyword Arguments:

- **is_leaf** (*callable**,**optional*) - reads a type and returns a boolean indicating if that type
should be seen as a leaf. By default, all non-Composite nodes are considered as
leaves.
- **step_mdp_static_only** (*bool**,**optional*) - if `True`, only keys that are static under step_mdp will be returned.
Default is `False`.

keys(*include_nested: bool = False*, *leaves_only: bool = False*, ***, *is_leaf: Callable[[type], bool] | None = None*, *step_mdp_static_only: bool = False*) → _CompositeSpecKeysView[[source]](../../_modules/torchrl/data/tensor_specs.html#StackedComposite.keys)

Keys of the Composite.

The keys argument reflect those of [`tensordict.TensorDict`](https://docs.pytorch.org/tensordict/stable/reference/generated/tensordict.TensorDict.html#tensordict.TensorDict).

Parameters:

- **include_nested** (*bool**,**optional*) - if `False`, the returned keys will not be nested. They will
represent only the immediate children of the root, and not the whole nested sequence, i.e. a
`Composite(next=Composite(obs=None))` will lead to the keys
["next"]. Default is ``False`, i.e. nested keys will not
be returned.
- **leaves_only** (*bool**,**optional*) - if `False`, the values returned
will contain every level of nesting, i.e. a `Composite(next=Composite(obs=None))`
will lead to the keys `["next", ("next", "obs")]`.
Default is `False`.

Keyword Arguments:

- **is_leaf** (*callable**,**optional*) - reads a type and returns a boolean indicating if that type
should be seen as a leaf. By default, all non-Composite nodes are considered as
leaves.
- **step_mdp_static_only** (*bool**,**optional*) - if `True`, only keys that are static under step_mdp will be returned.
Default is `False`.

lock_(*recurse: bool | None = None*) → None

Locks the Composite and prevents modification of its content.

The recurse argument control whether the lock will be propagated to sub-specs.
The current default is `False` but it will be turned to `True` for consistency
with the TensorDict API in v0.8.

Examples

```
>>> shape = [3, 4, 5]
>>> spec = Composite(
... a=Composite(
... b=Composite(shape=shape[:3], device="cpu"), shape=shape[:2]
... ),
... shape=shape[:1],
... )
>>> spec["a"] = spec["a"].clone()
>>> recurse = False
>>> spec.lock_(recurse=recurse)
>>> try:
... spec["a"] = spec["a"].clone()
... except RuntimeError:
... print("failed!")
failed!
>>> try:
... spec["a", "b"] = spec["a", "b"].clone()
... print("succeeded!")
... except RuntimeError:
... print("failed!")
succeeded!
>>> recurse = True
>>> spec.lock_(recurse=recurse)
>>> try:
... spec["a", "b"] = spec["a", "b"].clone()
... print("succeeded!")
... except RuntimeError:
... print("failed!")
failed!
```

make_neg_dim(*dim: int*)

Converts a specific dimension to `-1`.

memoize_encode(*mode: bool = True*) → None

Creates a cached sequence of callables for the encode method that speeds up its execution.

This should only be used whenever the input type, shape etc. are expected to be consistent across calls
for a given spec.

Parameters:

**mode** (*bool**,**optional*) - Whether the cache should be used. Defaults to True.

See also

the cache can be erased via [`erase_memoize_cache()`](torchrl.data.TensorSpec.html#torchrl.data.TensorSpec.erase_memoize_cache).

*property*names

Returns the names of the dimensions of this Composite.

*property*ndim

Number of dimensions of the spec shape.

Shortcut for `len(spec.shape)`.

ndimension()[[source]](../../_modules/torchrl/data/tensor_specs.html#StackedComposite.ndimension)

Number of dimensions of the spec shape.

Shortcut for `len(spec.shape)`.

one(*shape: [Size](https://docs.pytorch.org/docs/stable/size.html#torch.Size) = None*) → [TensorDictBase](https://docs.pytorch.org/tensordict/stable/reference/generated/tensordict.TensorDictBase.html#tensordict.TensorDictBase)[[source]](../../_modules/torchrl/data/tensor_specs.html#StackedComposite.one)

Returns a one-filled tensor in the box.

Note

Even though there is no guarantee that `1` belongs to the spec domain,
this method will not raise an exception when this condition is violated.
The primary use case of `one` is to generate empty data buffers, not meaningful data.

Parameters:

**shape** ([*torch.Size*](https://docs.pytorch.org/docs/stable/size.html#torch.Size)) - shape of the one-tensor

Returns:

a one-filled tensor sampled in the TensorSpec box.

ones(*shape: [Size](https://docs.pytorch.org/docs/stable/size.html#torch.Size) = None*) → [Tensor](https://docs.pytorch.org/docs/stable/tensors.html#torch.Tensor) | [TensorDictBase](https://docs.pytorch.org/tensordict/stable/reference/generated/tensordict.TensorDictBase.html#tensordict.TensorDictBase)

Proxy to `one()`.

ones_update(*val: [TensorDictBase](https://docs.pytorch.org/tensordict/stable/reference/generated/tensordict.TensorDictBase.html#tensordict.TensorDictBase)*) → [TensorDictBase](https://docs.pytorch.org/tensordict/stable/reference/generated/tensordict.TensorDictBase.html#tensordict.TensorDictBase)

Updates a TensorDict with 1-values according to the specs.

Shapes are expected to be compatible with the specs.

pop(*key: NestedKey*, *default: Any = _NoDefault.ZERO*) → Any

Removes and returns the value associated with the specified key from the composite spec.

This method searches for the given key in the composite spec, removes it, and returns its associated value.
If the key is not found, it returns the provided default value if specified, otherwise raises a KeyError.

Parameters:

- **key** (*NestedKey*) - The key to be removed from the composite spec. It can be a single key or a nested key.
- **default** (*Any**,**optional*) - The value to return if the specified key is not found in the composite spec.
If not provided and the key is not found, a KeyError is raised.

Returns:

The value associated with the specified key that was removed from the composite spec.

Return type:

Any

Raises:

**KeyError** - If the specified key is not found in the composite spec and no default value is provided.

project(*val: [TensorDictBase](https://docs.pytorch.org/tensordict/stable/reference/generated/tensordict.TensorDictBase.html#tensordict.TensorDictBase)*) → [TensorDictBase](https://docs.pytorch.org/tensordict/stable/reference/generated/tensordict.TensorDictBase.html#tensordict.TensorDictBase)[[source]](../../_modules/torchrl/data/tensor_specs.html#StackedComposite.project)

If the input tensor is not in the TensorSpec box, it maps it back to it given some defined heuristic.

Parameters:

**val** ([*torch.Tensor*](https://docs.pytorch.org/docs/stable/tensors.html#torch.Tensor)) - tensor to be mapped to the box.

Returns:

a torch.Tensor belonging to the TensorSpec box.

rand(*shape: [Size](https://docs.pytorch.org/docs/stable/size.html#torch.Size) = None*) → [TensorDictBase](https://docs.pytorch.org/tensordict/stable/reference/generated/tensordict.TensorDictBase.html#tensordict.TensorDictBase)[[source]](../../_modules/torchrl/data/tensor_specs.html#StackedComposite.rand)

Returns a random tensor in the space defined by the spec.

The sampling will be done uniformly over the space, unless the box is unbounded in which case normal values
will be drawn.

Parameters:

**shape** ([*torch.Size*](https://docs.pytorch.org/docs/stable/size.html#torch.Size)) - shape of the random tensor

Returns:

a random tensor sampled in the TensorSpec box.

rand_update(*val: [TensorDictBase](https://docs.pytorch.org/tensordict/stable/reference/generated/tensordict.TensorDictBase.html#tensordict.TensorDictBase)*) → [TensorDictBase](https://docs.pytorch.org/tensordict/stable/reference/generated/tensordict.TensorDictBase.html#tensordict.TensorDictBase)

Updates a TensorDict with random values according to the specs.

Shapes are expected to be compatible with the specs.

refine_names(**names*)

Refines the dimension names of self according to names.

Refining is a special case of renaming that "lifts" unnamed dimensions.
A None dim can be refined to have any name; a named dim can only be
refined to have the same name.

Because named specs can coexist with unnamed specs, refining names
gives a nice way to write named-spec-aware code that works with both
named and unnamed specs.

names may contain up to one Ellipsis (...). The Ellipsis is expanded
greedily; it is expanded in-place to fill names to the same length as
self.ndim using names from the corresponding indices of self.names.

Returns: the same composite spec with dimensions named according to the input.

Examples

```
>>> spec = Composite({}, shape=[3, 4, 5, 6])
>>> spec_refined = spec.refine_names(None, None, None, "d")
>>> assert spec_refined.names == [None, None, None, "d"]
>>> spec_refined = spec.refine_names("a", None, None, "d")
>>> assert spec_refined.names == ["a", None, None, "d"]
```

reshape(**shape*) → T

Reshapes a `TensorSpec`.

Check [`reshape()`](https://docs.pytorch.org/docs/stable/generated/torch.reshape.html#torch.reshape) for more information on this method.

sample(*shape: [Size](https://docs.pytorch.org/docs/stable/size.html#torch.Size) = None*) → [Tensor](https://docs.pytorch.org/docs/stable/tensors.html#torch.Tensor) | [TensorDictBase](https://docs.pytorch.org/tensordict/stable/reference/generated/tensordict.TensorDictBase.html#tensordict.TensorDictBase)

Returns a random tensor in the space defined by the spec.

See `rand()` for details.

separates(**keys: NestedKey*, *default: Any = None*) → [Composite](torchrl.data.Composite.html#torchrl.data.Composite)

Splits the composite spec by extracting specified keys and their associated values into a new composite spec.

This method iterates over the provided keys, removes them from the current composite spec, and adds them to a new
composite spec. If a key is not found, the specified default value is used. The new composite spec is returned.

Parameters:

- ***keys** (*NestedKey*) - One or more keys to be extracted from the composite spec. Each key can be a single key or a nested key.
- **default** (*Any**,**optional*) - The value to use if a specified key is not found in the composite spec. Defaults to None.

Returns:

A new composite spec containing the extracted keys and their associated values.

Return type:

[Composite](torchrl.data.Composite.html#torchrl.data.Composite)

Note

If none of the specified keys are found, the method returns None.

set(*name: str*, *spec: [TensorSpec](torchrl.data.TensorSpec.html#torchrl.data.TensorSpec)*) → StackedComposite[[source]](../../_modules/torchrl/data/tensor_specs.html#StackedComposite.set)

Sets a spec in the Composite spec.

squeeze(*dim: int | None = None*)

Returns a new Spec with all the dimensions of size `1` removed.

When `dim` is given, a squeeze operation is done only in that dimension.

Parameters:

**dim** (*int**or**None*) - the dimension to apply the squeeze operation to

to(*dest: [dtype](https://docs.pytorch.org/docs/stable/tensor_attributes.html#torch.dtype) | [device](https://docs.pytorch.org/docs/stable/tensor_attributes.html#torch.device) | str | int*) → T

Casts a TensorSpec to a device or a dtype.

Returns the same spec if no change is made.

to_numpy(*val: [TensorDict](https://docs.pytorch.org/tensordict/stable/reference/generated/tensordict.TensorDict.html#tensordict.TensorDict)*, *safe: bool | None = None*) → dict[[source]](../../_modules/torchrl/data/tensor_specs.html#StackedComposite.to_numpy)

Returns the `np.ndarray` correspondent of an input tensor.

This is intended to be the inverse operation of `encode()`.

Parameters:

- **val** ([*torch.Tensor*](https://docs.pytorch.org/docs/stable/tensors.html#torch.Tensor)) - tensor to be transformed_in to numpy.
- **safe** (*bool*) - boolean value indicating whether a check should be
performed on the value against the domain of the spec.
Defaults to the value of the `CHECK_SPEC_ENCODE` environment variable.

Returns:

a np.ndarray.

type_check(*value: [Tensor](https://docs.pytorch.org/docs/stable/tensors.html#torch.Tensor) | [TensorDictBase](https://docs.pytorch.org/tensordict/stable/reference/generated/tensordict.TensorDictBase.html#tensordict.TensorDictBase)*, *selected_keys: NestedKey | Sequence[NestedKey] | None = None*)[[source]](../../_modules/torchrl/data/tensor_specs.html#StackedComposite.type_check)

Checks the input value `dtype` against the `TensorSpec` `dtype` and raises an exception if they don't match.

Parameters:

- **value** ([*torch.Tensor*](https://docs.pytorch.org/docs/stable/tensors.html#torch.Tensor)) - tensor whose dtype has to be checked.
- **key** (*str**,**optional*) - if the TensorSpec has keys, the value
dtype will be checked against the spec pointed by the
indicated key.

unflatten(*dim: int*, *sizes: tuple[int]*) → T

Unflattens a `TensorSpec`.

Check [`unflatten()`](https://docs.pytorch.org/docs/stable/generated/torch.unflatten.html#torch.unflatten) for more information on this method.

unlock_(*recurse: bool | None = None*) → T

Unlocks the Composite and allows modification of its content.

This is only a first-level lock modification, unless specified
otherwise through the `recurse` arg.

unsqueeze(*dim: int*)

Returns a new Spec with one more singleton dimension (at the position indicated by `dim`).

Parameters:

**dim** (*int**or**None*) - the dimension to apply the unsqueeze operation to.

values(*include_nested: bool = False*, *leaves_only: bool = False*, ***, *is_leaf: Callable[[type], bool] | None = None*, *step_mdp_static_only: bool = False*) → _CompositeSpecValuesView[[source]](../../_modules/torchrl/data/tensor_specs.html#StackedComposite.values)

Values of the Composite.

Parameters:

- **include_nested** (*bool**,**optional*) - if `False`, the returned keys will not be nested. They will
represent only the immediate children of the root, and not the whole nested sequence, i.e. a
`Composite(next=Composite(obs=None))` will lead to the keys
["next"]. Default is ``False`, i.e. nested keys will not
be returned.
- **leaves_only** (*bool**,**optional*) - if `False`, the values returned
will contain every level of nesting, i.e. a `Composite(next=Composite(obs=None))`
will lead to the keys `["next", ("next", "obs")]`.
Default is `False`.

Keyword Arguments:

- **is_leaf** (*callable**,**optional*) - reads a type and returns a boolean indicating if that type
should be seen as a leaf. By default, all non-Composite nodes are considered as
leaves.
- **step_mdp_static_only** (*bool**,**optional*) - if `True`, only keys that are static under step_mdp will be returned.
Default is `False`.

view(**shape*) → T

Reshapes a `TensorSpec`.

Check [`reshape()`](https://docs.pytorch.org/docs/stable/generated/torch.reshape.html#torch.reshape) for more information on this method.

zero(*shape: [Size](https://docs.pytorch.org/docs/stable/size.html#torch.Size) = None*) → [TensorDictBase](https://docs.pytorch.org/tensordict/stable/reference/generated/tensordict.TensorDictBase.html#tensordict.TensorDictBase)[[source]](../../_modules/torchrl/data/tensor_specs.html#StackedComposite.zero)

Returns a zero-filled tensor in the box.

Note

Even though there is no guarantee that `0` belongs to the spec domain,
this method will not raise an exception when this condition is violated.
The primary use case of `zero` is to generate empty data buffers, not meaningful data.

Parameters:

**shape** ([*torch.Size*](https://docs.pytorch.org/docs/stable/size.html#torch.Size)) - shape of the zero-tensor

Returns:

a zero-filled tensor sampled in the TensorSpec box.

zeros(*shape: [Size](https://docs.pytorch.org/docs/stable/size.html#torch.Size) = None*) → [Tensor](https://docs.pytorch.org/docs/stable/tensors.html#torch.Tensor) | [TensorDictBase](https://docs.pytorch.org/tensordict/stable/reference/generated/tensordict.TensorDictBase.html#tensordict.TensorDictBase)

Proxy to `zero()`.

zeros_update(*val: [TensorDictBase](https://docs.pytorch.org/tensordict/stable/reference/generated/tensordict.TensorDictBase.html#tensordict.TensorDictBase)*) → [TensorDictBase](https://docs.pytorch.org/tensordict/stable/reference/generated/tensordict.TensorDictBase.html#tensordict.TensorDictBase)

Updates a TensorDict with zeroed values according to the specs.

Shapes are expected to be compatible with the specs.